---
title: Antimage
permalink: /homebrew/subclasses/antimage/
layout: post
categories: Homebrew, Subclasses
author: Andres Sepulveda
---

A fighter Martial Archetype for Dungeons and Dragon's 5th Edition revolving around the resistance and eventual countering of all types of spellcasters. Wizards, beware!

<div class="toc" style="float: right; margin-left: 50px; margin-right: 100px">

<hr style="margin-bottom: 20px;">
### Table of Contents
{:.no_toc}
* TOC
{:toc}
<hr>
</div>

## Introduction

It is highly recommended that you take the *Mage Slayer Feat* if you decide to become an Antimage Fighter. Combined with the abilities imposing disadvantage on saving throws against maintaining concentration, making melee weapon attacks against nearby spellcasters, and having advantage on saving throws from spells from nearby spellcasters, the Antimage Martial Archetype is a spellcaster's worst nightmare.

## Antimage Features

| Fighter Level | Features |
|:----:|:-------------|
| 3rd  | *Penchant for Magic, Spellshield*|
| 7th  | *Lyrium Coating, Nullshield*|
| 10th | *Spellward*|
| 15th | *Red Lyrium Handling*|
| 18th | *Aegis Arcanum*|

## Penchant for Magic

When you choose this archetype at 3rd level, you gain proficiency in the Arcana skill. Additionally, you can cast *Detect Magic* at will, ignoring spell components. 

## Spellshield

When you choose this archetype at 3rd level, you develop a shroud that protects you against the arcane. You gain a number of temporary Hit Points equal to 5 x your Fighter Level, which are restored upon taking a Short or Long Rest. Bludgeoning, Piercing, and Slashing damage from non-magical sources bypass this temporary HP.

When you have at least one temporary Hit Point granted by ***Spellshield***, your ***Spellshield*** is considered "active." While your ***Spellshield*** is active, you gain the following:
<ul>
  <li>***Arcane Surge***: You can store a number of Arcane Surges equal to 1 + your Constitution modifier. Whenever you finish a Short or Long Rest with more than one Arcane Surge stored, the number of Arcane Surges stored resets to one. Whenever your ***Spellshield*** feature takes damage from a spell casted by a non-friendly creature, you gain one Arcane Surge, representative of you stealing magic from your assailant.
  </li>
  <li>***Magic Resistance***: You gain resistance to all damage originating from a spell, regardless of damage type. </li>
  <li>***Forceful Strike***: You learn to imbue your strikes with the magic stored within you. You can expend one Arcane Surge in order to add an additional 1d6 force damage to a Damage Roll. </li>
</ul>

## Lyrium Coating

### Lyrium Coating

At 7th level, you learn to utilize Lyrium, a dangerous mineral-like substance that can be used to nullify magic, in several useful ways. Once per long rest, you can spend 1 hour and 25g treating an item of your choice with a ***Lyrium Coating***.

<ul>
  <li>***Ammunition***: Up to three pieces of ammunition can be coated with Lyrium. When using Lyrium Ammunition, it causes an additional 1d6 force damage when making a ranged weapon attack towards creatures with the ***Spellcasting*** trait. </li>
  <li>***Armor ***: Once per round, a set of armor coated with Lyrium can reduce the oncoming damage from a spell by 1d4. </li>
  <li>***Shields***: Once per round, When a creature wielding a shield coated with Lyrium is the target of a melee or ranged spell attack, the creature can add +1 to their AC.</li>
  <li>***Weapon***: A weapon coated with Lyrium will deal an additional 1d6 force damage when making a melee weapon attack towards creatures with the ***Spellcasting*** trait. </li>
</ul>

***Lyrium Toxicity***: Lyrium is toxic to those who aren't accustomed to working with it, and each item with ***Lyrium Coating*** will cause 1d6 Force damage at the start of each round to a creature without the ***Lyrium Coating*** trait carrying it. 

Although you are resistant to it's effects, only spirits are truly immune. You can carry a number of items with ***Lyrium Coating*** equal to your Constitution Modifier (minimum of one). Each item with ***Lyrium Coating*** applied you carry beyond that number will deal 1d6 Force damage at the start of every round. 

### Nullshield

At 7th level, your skills in combatting magic have grown to allow you to redirect the flow of the arcane within another creature. Your ***Spellshield*** becomes augmented with the following feature:
	<ul>
  		<li>***Nullify Magic***: You can expend an Arcane Surge in order to cast either *Dispel Magic* or *Counterspell*, ignoring spellcasting components. When making ability checks for these spells, you make these ability checks adding half of your proficiency bonus and use your Dexterity modifier to calculate Spell Save DC and Spell Attack Modifiers.</li>
    </ul>

### Spellward

Beginning at 10th level, you learn how to better manipulate the magic being thrown at you, enough to wreak havoc against your foes. Your ***Spellshield*** becomes augmented with these additional features:

<ul>
  <li>***Deflect Magic***: When you absorb the full amount of damage from a spell with your ***Spellshield***, you can choose to expend the newly gained Arcane Surge to deflect the spell back at the target. You cast the same spell as a ranged spell attack, ignoring spell components and casting time. You make this attack with proficiency, regardless of proficiency with the spell itself. When casting spells using ***Deflect Magic***, you use your Dexterity modifier to calculate Spell Save DC and Spell Attack Modifiers.</li>
</ul>

### Red Lyrium Coating

Beginning at 15th level, you learn the secrets of using Red Lyrium, a rare form of Lyrium that is particularly exceptional at nullifying magic. Once per long rest, you can spend 1 hour and 100g treating an item of your choice with a Red Lyrium Coating:
<ul>
  <li>***Ammunition***: Up to three pieces of ammunition can be coated with Red Lyrium. When using Red Lyrium Ammunition, it causes an additional 2d6 force damage when making a ranged weapon attack towards creatures with the ***Spellcasting*** trait.  </li>
  <li>***Armor ***: Once per round, a set of armor coated with Red Lyrium can reduce the oncoming damage from a spell by 2d4. </li>
  <li>***Shields***: Once per round, When a creature wielding a shield coated with Lyrium is the target of a melee or ranged spell attack, the creature can add +2 to their AC.</li>
  <li>***Weapon***: A weapon coated with Red Lyrium will deal an additional 2d6 force damage when making a melee weapon attack towards creatures with the ***Spellcasting*** trait. </li>
</ul>

Weapons coated with Red Lyrium cancel the effects of previous ***Lyrium Coating***. 

***Red Lyrium Toxicity***: If Lyrium is toxic, then holding Red Lyrium is a death wish. An item with Red Lyrium Coating has similar properties to your standard ***Lyrium Coating***, however it deals 2d6 Force damage per round instead. Items with the Red Lyrium Coating applied count as two items towards the amount of ***Lyrium Coating*** items you can carry without succumbing to toxicity, and deal 2d6 Force damage instead. 

### Aegis Arcanum

At 18th level, the energy you shroud yourself overflows with magic, granting you new and more powerful abilities. Your ***Spellshield*** becomes augmented with additional features:
<ul>
  <li>***Arcane Siphon***: When your ***Spellshield*** is active, you gain temporary hit points equal to 3 times the number of Arcane Surges you currently have stored at the start of your turn. These temporary hit points are added to your current pool of temporary hit points granted by ***Spellshield***, rather than replacing them. You cannot surpass the number of temporary hit points given to you after a Short or Long Rest.</li>
  <li>***Null Surge***: You can add your full proficiency bonus to ability checks when using ***Nullify Magic***. </li>
  <li>***Vehement Force***: You do an additional 1d6 Force damage with a ***Forceful Strike***. </li>
</ul>

## Changelog

### Version 1.4
  
  <ul>
    <li>Rework for Spellshield: Antimage now revolves around maintaining this ability active. Magic Resistance included.</li>
    <li>Arcane Surge is now an inherent ability of Spellshield. The additional damage granted by Arcane Surge is now referred to as Forceful Strike. </li>
    <li>Lyrium Coated Weaponry became Lyrium Coating. Moved to 7th level. Lyrium now actually has toxicity. It costs money to be able to coat weapons with Lyrium. Specifics on the effects and amount of items you can carry are included. </li>
    <li> Deflect Magic has been combined with Dispel Magic and Counterspell to become Spellward at 10th level. Using each ability constitutes the use of an Arcane Surge. </li>
  <li>Red Lyrium Handling added at 15th level. Acts as an upgrade for Lyrium Coating. </li>
  <li>Capstone Ability Rework: Aegis Arcanum at 18th Level. Adds the ability to regain temp HP for Spellshield per turn, additional bonuses to Counterspell and Dispel Magic, and addiitonal damage for Forceful Strike. 
  </ul>