---
title: Downtime
permalink: /rules/downtime/
layout: post
categories: Rules
author: u/Aaquamarius on Reddit
---

<a href="https://www.reddit.com/r/dndnext/comments/apblrv/nothing_to_do_a_guide_on_downtime/">Original Post on Reddit by u/Aaquamarius</a>

**TLDR: A guide on what you can do with your downtime. Just like in the title. They're alphabetical so if you're looking for a specific one, just scroll to it.**

Recently my group had just finished an adventure and our DM gave us some downtime. However, finding what you can do with your downtime is a chore due to the fact that it spans across three different books with rules that can differ. So I made this guide with the goal of cataloging everything you can do with your downtime all in one place.

I will be covering mostly everything you can do with your downtime. While I won't be posting graphs and charts for each one, I'll try to go in depth enough to help you make an educated decision. Once you do make a decision, I implore you to check the rulebook from which it came from as these are just descriptions and not the actual rules. I'll list the pros and cons for each activity, but ultimately, everything comes down to whether your DM will allow it or not. For example, some of them require certain services to be available, and it is up to your DM whether or not that service is available.

### Table of Contents 
* TOC
{:toc}

## Things to Keep in Mind

**Remember, this is D&D. What you do with your downtime is up to you.**

Just because I listed it or it is in the book doesn't mean that they are the only options you have. Talk with your DM about what you want to do and come up with a plan and the associated cost. Players should be free to spend their money and time on what they wish. A sailor may want to build a boat and a fighter may want to spend their time doing menial escort missions. However, I would suggest two thing when creating downtime activities:

1. You are an adventurer. Sure running a business or carousing is fun, but in the end you are an adventurer, whether it is because you like it or you have to. A downtime event shouldn't overwrite the desire to adventure. If it does, then that character becomes an NPC, doing the same task over and over again. If a downtime event does a lot for a downtime even, consider making it into a session. Setting up a business can turn into a session full of unexpected events and smuggling illegal goods could create a session where you run into the local law enforcement. At it's core, you're playing D&D, full of adventure and role play, so don't turn your game into a resource management where you wait for the downtime activity to be over only to continue to the next one.
2. Make sure it is okay with both the DM and your party. Don't try and derail a whole campaign. If you have the magical mcguffin that will save the world and you decide to sell it, your party isn't going to be happy with it. On the flip side, if you create a downtime activity that generates way too much gold or benefit's you too much, your DM might try to change it. Collaborate and try to find a way to come to a conclusion. In the end, everyone should be happy with the activity.

## Lifestyle Expenses

We can't talk about downtime without talking about lifestyle expenses. While some downtime activities allow you to circumvent this cost, if you don't plan on doing anything with your downtime (which you shouldn't), you will be required to pay this cost in order to afford lodging, food, and the maintaining of armor and weapons. The gold you pay depends on the quality of life you are living. The poorer the lifestyle, the less you pay. The cost of living might be higher or lower depending on how much gold your DM gives your party.

| Lifestyle | Price per Day |
|:-----------:|:---------------:|
|Wretched   | -- |
|Squalid    | 1 sp |
|Poor       | 2 sp |
|Modest     | 1 gp |
|Comfortable| 2 gp |
|Wealthy    | 4 gp |
|Aristocratic| 10gp minimum|

Alternatively, if you have proficiency in the Survival skill, you are able to live a comfortable life in the wild but cannot do any other activity. If you are a member or a friend of a guild or group, you may be able to live there without paying the expense as well.

Depending on your DM and the lifestyle you chose, you could gain important contacts or connections with other people. Spending time living with the poor might net you allies with the local beggars and street urchins or living an aristocratic life could help you gain favor with a wealthy noble.

## Building a Stronghold (DMG)

So, you have recently come into a bit of land, whether it be through money or murder. You can now build a stronghold on it. Building a stronghold requires **a lot** of time and money and usually should be done after a large adventure. Basically, the bigger the building is, the more it cost and the longer it takes. A small trading post or guildhall might take **5,000 gp and 60 days** while a grand palace or large castle could take **500,000 gp and 1,200 days,** or about **3 years.** The stronghold can be built without the character needing to be there, but it takes longer if they aren't. Overall, if you have the time and gold and your party doesn't have a base of operations, a guildhall would probably be the best investment for your party, but I would think twice about building any of the bigger strongholds.

## Buying a Magical Item (XGtE)

If you're itching for a specific magic item, you can try and seek a seller. You can spend **1 week and 100 gp** to find a seller, but spending more time and money can yield better results. At the end of your search, you roll on a table which determines which magic table you roll on in the **DMG** and that decides the magic item you receive. You then roll on **another** table to determine the price of the item.

Ok, I'm going to be honest, the whole process is a bit much. You might not even get the item you want. If you are looking for a specific magic item or a magic item seller, I would talk to your DM about it. You could spend the workweek searching for a seller or magic item and at the end of it, the seller could state the price and you could either buy it or try and haggle it down. Xanthar's or not, I would get the process approved by your DM before you spend your downtime searching for a seller.

## Carousing

Carousing is different in the DMG and XGtE, so I made two different entries for them.

### Carousing (DMG)

In the DMG, carousing means living a lavish life, consisting of partying, drinking, gambling, and anything that relieves stress. A player spends enough money to maintain a wealthy lifestyle, **or 4 gp**, and at the end of the period, they roll on a table to see what happens. The results can range from being arrested, to falling in love, to winning money while gambling. Most players who I've seen carouse only do so because it fits in with their character, whether it be a gambling halfling or a lizardfolk who likes to party. All in all, carousing isn't a bad option, but I believe there are other things you can do with your downtime than it.

### Carousing (XGtE)

In Xanthar's Guide, carousing is a bit different. You choose whether to spend time with the lower, middle, or upper class, costing **10, 50, and 250 gp** per **week** respectively. If you want to spend time with the upper class, you'll either need access to the local nobility or be disguised with one. During the week you mingle, party, and socialize with members of that social class. At the end of the **week**, you gain a number of contacts within that class. Some examples are criminals in the lower class, soldiers in the middle class, and nobles in the upper class. This option is great for collecting allies and intel, especially if you are new to the area. If your character is a charismatic one who needs information, like a Bard or an Inquisitive Rogue, then I would carouse with as much as you can.

## Crafting Non-Magical Items (PHB & XGtE)

If you have enough time, tools, and materials, you can finally put those tool proficiencies to use and create something. For everyday of downtime, you can craft up to **5 gp worth of items** and spend half the cost in raw materials. If the item you are trying to craft exceeds **5 gp,** you can make **5 gp** of progress towards it per day, and if multiple people work on it, they each add an additional **5 gp** of progress towards it. So if you have proficiency in smith's tools, you can spend **10 days** to create a great sword (**50 gp**), or if you have a friend helping you, you can create the great sword in only **5 days.** In addition, while you are crafting, you can maintain you a modest lifestyle without paying the cost or a comfortable lifestyle for half the cost. If you think **5 gp** is too little, I would follow Xanthar's Guide and increase the gp to **50 gp**.

Doing this can be a good way of getting mileage out of your tool proficiency without waiting for an opportunity. Forge Clerics can create armor and Assassins can create poisons. In my experience, it's better to create cheap and easy to make items as you will rarely have enough time to finish large projects like plate armor or a **1000 gp** spyglass(why). If you don't want to pay the lifestyle cost and you have a tool proficiency, this is probably the best thing you can do.

## Crafting Magical Items (DMG & XGtE)

Alternatively, if you're a spell caster with tool proficiencies, you can add a touch of magic to your items. Crafting a magical item is a long and complicated process. First the crafter needs to be able to cast spells, and if they're imbuing an item with a specific spell, they must be able to cast it. If the item requires a tool proficiency to make, like if you're making a magic sword, the crafter will need proficiency in said tools, like smith's tools. Second, the crafter will need a formula of the magical item. If the crafter is creating their own, home brewed item or the DM feels like it, the formula might not be needed. Third, you will need materials. Unlike non-magical items, magical items require specific materials that could take whole adventures to gather. Check with your DM to see what you need and how hard it is to gather.

Once you have all the requirements, you can finally start crafting. For the PHB, you can craft up to **25gp** worth of item per day, and as with non-magical items, having a friend will help speed up the process by **25 gp**. The time it takes to craft it depends on the rarity of the magical item. For Xanthar's guide, the workweek and gold cost depend on the rarity.

|Item Rarity|Minimum Level|Workweeks|Cost|
|:---------:|:---:|:---------------:|:--:|
|Common|3rd|1|50 gp|
|Uncommon|3rd|2|200 gp|
|Rare|6th|10|2,000 gp|
|Very Rare|11th|25|20,000 gp|
|Legendary|17th|50|100,000 gp|

The item you create is up to the player and the DM. You can choose from the magical items in the DMG or you can create a unique item if both the player and the DM are okay with it. This opens up a world of possibilities for the player and lets them add personalized magical items for their character. As with crafting non-magical items, you don't have to pay the cost for a modest lifestyle or pay half for a comfortable lifestyle.

## Crime (XGtE)

For those rogues out there whose party won't let them be a kleptomaniac, they can spend their downtime getting a little extra coin. You can spend your downtime planning and executing a heist. First, you spend **25 gp and a workweek** on intel. Then you make, a series of crime related checks, such as stealth for not getting caught and deception since you got caught. The amount of successful checks determines the outcome of the heist, ranging from being caught and jailed to making it out with a small fortune. However, crime isn't easy and your DM may choose to put in some consequences. The most common ones include police investigations or a bounty on the character's head. However, if you have a plan or you know you aren't going to be staying in the town for long, then committing some crime isn't so bad.

## Gaining Renown (DMG)

Remember renown? You can spend your downtime doing small task and socializing with members of a faction, By spending a number of days equal to **10 * your current renown level**, you can increase your renown by a whopping 1 point. Personally, I have never been in a game where we used a renown system, but if you are, this is a good way of bringing it up without going on large adventures.

## Gambling (XGtE)

Unlike carousing in the DMG, gambling throws out all the other events and lets you deal purely with money. And if you have proficiency in any of the gaming sets, like dice or card sets, then this is your time to shine. Gambling requires **a workweek and anywhere from 10 gp to 1000 gp.** Xanthar's requires you to roll specific skills, but if your DM allows it, you can replace them with other skills such as sleight of hand, deception, or your various gaming set proficiencies. The results can range from crippling debt to winning up to three times your bet. Overall, if you're confident in lady luck or know the tricks of the trade, gambling is a fun way of earning money.

## Performing Sacred Rights (DMG) / Religious Services (XGtE)

For all the paladins and clerics out there, you can spend your free time praising your god. If there is a temple near you that is affiliated with your god, you can spend your time performing sacred ceremonies such as weddings, funerals, and sacrifices. If you can do this for **at least ten days**, you'll be rewarded with inspiration every day for **2d6 days**. On the flip side, Xanthar's allows you to gain a different type of advantage. If you spend a **workweek** doing the aforementioned ceremonies, you could gain favor from your god or the church. These can either be favors you can ask the church, help with spellcasting costs, or divine interventions from the god/DM themselves. So when the adventure does start, you'll have a leg up on whatever trouble you'll be facing that day. If you are a cleric or paladin or your character is just super religious, I would seriously consider doing this if you have **ten days** to spare.

## Practicing a Profession (PHB)

If you don't want to pay those pesky lifestyle expenses, you can go from action-packed adventuring to working a 9-5 job. Practicing a profession allows you to live a modest lifestyle without paying the cost as long as you keep working. If you are apart of a guild or group, like a thieves guild, you instead gain enough for a comfortable lifestyle. Finally, if your character is willing to put themselves out there and has a proficiency in performance, they can perform and maintain a wealthy lifestyle without paying the cost.

## Pit Fighting (XGtE)

Show of your inner macho man in the ring by pit fighting. Pit fights consist of organized, competitive, non-lethal fights, though your DM can choose to make them lethal. Your DM can choose to enact each of these fights, creating a separate combat encounter for each one, or roll with the rules given in Xanthar's. As with most of XGtE's downtime activities, you make a series of checks that determine the outcome **at the end of the workweek**, ranging from losing all your fights to gaining a small some of gp, which can either be decided from the table or your DM. The difference in gambling and other activities is the small amount of risk involved. Unlike committing crimes or gambling, you lose nothing if fail all your roles, so if you are a rough and tough fighter looking to make a little coin, try pit fighting.

## Recuperating (PHB) / Resting (XGtE)

Surprisingly, unlike the other differences, relaxing in both the PHB and XGtE give the same benefits. In order to relax, you must be able to maintain a modest lifestyle while you recuperate. For the PHB its **three days** and for XGtE its a **whole week**. You gain an advantage against any diseases and poisons affecting you, you end any effect that stops you from regaining health, and you can restore one ability score back to its original score if it had been decreased. All in all, if your character is injured or they just need to enjoy some R&R, recuperating is a good way of spending your downtime.

## Researching (DMG/XGtE)

If you're playing a studious wizard or a cautious ranger, then you'll want to research so you'll be prepared for the troubles ahead. You spend your downtime researching a specific subject or topic that you state at the beginning of your research. Your DM can decide how long it takes to research the subject or you can spend a **workweek** according to Xanthar's, and they may require you to make some rolls. In addition, you must pay an extra amount on top of your lifestyle expenses, ranging from +1 gold per day in the DMG or **50 gp** in the XGtE. At the end of the researching period, the DM will give information relating to your research, ranging from locations to lore to monster statistics. If you need more intel on what you're facing or the little metagamer inside you wants to get out, try researching for a bit. It never hurts to be prepared.

## Running a Business (DMG)

Sometimes an adventurer just wants to settle down and run a business for a while. These can range from taverns to stores to exotic services. Depending on the amount of days spent running the business, you can either gain or lose an amount of **gold**, but spending more **days** running a business increases the chance of gaining gold. As the DM, you can follow the book and roll dice to determine the amount they earn, but if you want to spice it up, you can create unique events such as a rival business taking your customers or a group of edgy adventurers that try to murder someone in your establishment. Opening and running a business is probably one of the simplest things you can do with your downtime, but that doesn't make it a bad option if you have the ability to do it.

## Scribing Spell Scrolls (XGtE)

If you're like me and worried about wasting your precious spell slots, then you should try your hand at making spell scrolls. In order to make spell scrolls you need proficiency in arcana, the ability to cast spells, time, gold, and any material components needed for the spell. The **time and amount of gold** spent depend on the level for the spell; the higher the spell level the more it cost to make. Scribing spell scrolls, in my opinion, is one of the best ways of spellcasters spending their downtime, since it allows them to create a sort of toolbox of spells without having to prepare them. Although it isn't the best for casters with a fixed spell list, like sorcerers and bards, characters that can easily change their spell list, like clerics, druids, and wizards, will greatly benefit since they'll be able to cast spells that they don't have prepared. The only downside is cost, but at higher levels gold is usually not an issue. If you have enough **gold, time, and spells to cast,** try creating some spell scrolls.

## Selling Magic Items (DMG/XGtE)

Let's say you have come into possession of a cursed item. You obviously don't want it, so your best option is to sell it. You can spend your downtime looking for a buyer. The buyer can range from a wealthy noble to a shady vagabond, but a buyer will give a proposed price proportional to the rarity of the magic item. You can then try to haggle the price, sell the item to them, or keep the item and search for a new buyer. Selling magic items helps you cycle out some of the less useful magic items while making a bit of coin. However, depending on who you sell it to, it could always bite you back later. I usually keep all my magic items, but if something is useless or cursed, selling it is a viable solution.

## Sowing Rumors (DMG)

If you want to channel your inner "Mean Girls" or you're just a charismatic guy seeking to cause some drama, spreading rumors is an option for you. You can spend your downtime and a little bit of extra **gold** to spread rumors about a specific person or organization. The bigger the place, the longer it takes for word to get around. The rumors can range from scandalous accusations that will tarnish a reputation to good deeds that will make them seem a little bit nicer. If you're playing a social campaign or just really dislike a person, sowing rumors is a fun way of ruining a person's public image.

## Training (PHB/XGtE)

Self-improvement is important for everyone, including your character. Although the rules vary in both books, the same process is still there. First, you need to find a mentor or instructor to teach you how to do the skill. They can range from a war general teaching you how to use a certain weapon, a professor teaching you a language, or a wood elf teaching you how to survive in the wilds. By the book, you can only learn a new language or tool proficiency, but if you want to learn something other than that, you'll have to run it by your DM first. After you find your teacher, you can spend a number of **days and gold** learning the skill, and at the end of the process, you'll be proficient in the tool or language. If you want your character to speak a specific language or pick up a specific tool set for roleplaying reasons, then I would suggest training with your downtime.

## Training to Gain Levels (DMG)

There is a variant rule in the DMG that requires you to spend your downtime training in order to level up. First, you're going to need some xp to level up, usually after you have slayed a dragon or finished an adventure. Second, you're going to need enough gold and xp required for the level; the higher the level, the more it cost. Once you have everything, you can spend your downtime training and by the end of it, you'll level up. This variant rule is good for games where you have a lot of time between each adventures and you want to give players another option for their downtime or a better sense of progression. If you do have this variant rule active, this would probably be the best option for your downtime since leveling up gives you more spells and class skills.