---
title: Test
layout: post
permalink: /mechanics/crafting/test/
categories: Crafting
author: Andres Sepulveda
---
# Crafting with Tools and Supplies

## Brewer's Supplies

Pulled from ['Brewer Supplies - v1.1' by DumpStatAdventures](https://www.gmbinder.com/share/-LbudMyCoMbx7gMM_Te6)

Beer has been around for almost as long as bread has, and one could argue that it has a greater effect on society, at least in the evening. This favorite drink is created by steeping cereal grains in water and letting that ferment into a sweet flavored beverage with yeast. The yeast, grains, and adjuncts help define the drink and its complicated flavoring, and it also allows you to add in alchemical and magical ingredients to help give your drinks a better punch.

While it typically takes Beer, Ale, Lagers and so many other drinks weeks or even months to fully develop; with these small batch drinks you'll be up and drinking in a few days!

### What's in the Toolkit?

Brewer's Supplies include a mash tun, copper kettle, piping, a siphon, a series of mesh filters, a small fermenting vat, and basic malt, hops and spices. These supplies cost 30 gp and weigh 50 lbs. Proficiency with Brewer's Supplies allows you to add your Proficiency Bonus to any check you make for brewing or identifing alcohols.

### How to Brew

When brewing an item, you must know its recipe, have access to the requisite materials, and spend the amount of days needed for it to process and ferment. Anytime a check is called for in brewing this beverage, you must make a Wisdom check, and if you are proficient in Brewer's Supplies, you may add your Proficiency Bonus to the check.

#### Recipe Brews

Every brewed beverage requires a recipe to make. This recipe lists out any special ingredients you need, the number of days required to ferment, and the difficulty of the beverage. Some special ingredients may require you to purchase them in town, or to go on quests to find them.

You can learn new recipes by visiting other brewers, travelers or in faraway monasteries that guard their specialty recipes. You can also make a Brewer's Supplies check if you encounter a brewed beverage and you want to determine how you could craft it yourself.

You can only have one recipe brewing at a time in your fermenting vat. To brew more, you must purchase another Brewer's Supplies. Each brew is enough to create one use, or one bottle, of that recipe. If you wish to create in bulk, that would be up to the DM's discretion and require proper equipment like a brewery.

#### The Process

To create a brewed beverage, you must first gather the required ingredients for a recipe that you know. After that you then create your mash and then ferment the mixture for a number of days, based on the recipe. You must succeed on two Wisdom (Brewer's Supplies) checks in order to properly brew a beverage of your choice.

##### Boiling the Mash

Once you gather your ingredients, you can begin creating and boiling the mash over the course of a short or long rest. Once your grains and spices are properly prepared, you must then make a Wisdom (Brewer's Supplies) check, the DC is determined by the recipe, in order to properly prepare the mash. On a fail, you can still brew your beverage but it will not have any Effects.

##### Fermenting the Brew

After preparing the mash, you then must filter it out and then add it to your special fermenting vat, a slightly larger sized sealed flagon that you can strap to the outside of a travel pack. After a certain number of days, determined by the recipe, your brew will finish fermenting.

Once your brew is fermented, you must make a Wisdom (Brewer's Supplies) check based off of the DC of the recipe you are attempting, on a fail the fermented brew does not have any Effects.

#### Imbibing

While your brewed goods do have alcohol, you don't need to worry about intoxication unless the DM decides that the character has had too much to drink. A character can only benefit from a single Brewed Beverage once per short rest, upon drinking additional brews, they gain no additional benefits from the second beverage and lose any benefits of the original beverage.

If your brew isn't consumed immediately, you can bottle your brew for a later use. Each bottled brew weighs half a pound and can last for several months before its no longer fit to be drunk.

If you wish to buy these, you may be able to find them sold at specialty breweries, their costs can range from **two to ten times their Ingredient costs.**

### Brewed Recipes

#### Berserker's Rage

This hard spirit requires the blood of a cave fisher, its alcoholic blood creating an infect like no other. Berserkers have been known to guzzle this spirit before battle, their ferocity growing greater and the strikes slamming into their foes. When ingested, once per turn you have advantage on a melee attack that uses your Strength for the next 10 minutes.

* **Fermenting Time:** 5 days
* **Brew DC:** 15
* **Ingredient Cost:** 140 gp
  * **Alternative:** Cave Fisher Blood + 70 gp
* **Effect Duration:** 10 minutes
* **Effect:** Advantage on melee attack that uses Strength once per turn.

#### Boulder Beer

This dark and extra foamy beer has more alcohol in it than a dwarven bar. When ingested, you have 10 minutes where blades, arrows and other weapons seem to barely slow you down, though for some reason you are now fighting twice as many people as before. During these 10 minutes you gain resistance to bludgeoning, piercing and slashing damage, but you have the Poisoned condition. If the Poisoned condition is removed early, it also removes your resistances.

* **Fermenting Time:** 5 days
* **Brew DC:** 15
* **Ingredient Cost:** 30 gp
  * **Alternative:** Barley, Wheat + 15 gp
* **Effect Duration:** 10 minutes
* **Effect:** Resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing weapons. Gain the *poisoned* condition until the effect ends.

#### Dragon's Porter

This fiery porter creates a delightful burning sensation in your mouth and your throat. While ingested, you have the ability to breath magical fire on your enemies. As a bonus action on your turn, you can belch out fire in a 5 foot cone. All creatures in the area must make a Dexterity Saving Throw or take 2d6 fire damage. You can belch out fire a number of times equal to the Brewer's Wisdom Modifier.

NOTE: The DC for this breath weapon check equals *8 + **Brewer's** Wisdom Modifier + **Brewer's** Proficiency Bonus.* 

* **Fermenting Time:** 7 days
* **Brew DC:** 20
* **Ingredient Cost:** 50 gp
  * **Alternative:** Jalapeno Peppers + 25 gp
* **Effect Duration:** 1 minute
* **Effect:** Belch fire in a 5 foot cone a number of times equal to the Brewer's Wisdom Modifier, dealing 2d6 fire damage on a failed Dexterity saving throw

#### Dwarven Courage

This simple beer has a hoppy finish that gives you the inner strength needed to face your fears. When ingested, you have advantage on all saving throws against the Frightened condition for the next hour.

* **Fermenting Time:** 3 days
* **Brew DC:** 13
* **Ingredient Cost:** 10 gp
* **Effect Duration:** 1 hour
* **Effect:** Advantage on saving throws against the Frightened condition

#### Flumph Pale Ale

A new style of drink that is coming out of the subterrenean lands, this has become popular among party-goers and younger members of society due to it's... foul nature. It is named after the flumph due to the reaction many have who imbibe it. After imbibing the drink, you can then immediately belch out a spray of stench and each creature in a 10-foot cone must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or be coated in a foul-smelling liquid. All creatures within 5 feet of a coated creature, must make on Constitution saving throw or are poisoned until the start of their next turn. A creature who is coated in the liquid has disadvantage on their saving throw. A creature who succeeds on their Constitution saving throw is immune to the stench. A coated creature is covered in stench for 1d4 hours, but can remove the stench with alcohol, water or vinegar.

NOTE: The DC for this effect's saving throw is *8 + **Brewer's** Wisdom Modifier + **Brewer's** Proficiency Bonus*

* **Fermenting Time:** 5 days
* **Brew DC:** 13
* **Ingredient Cost:** 30 gp
  * **Alternative:** Flumph Spray + 15 gp
* **Effect Duration:** 1d4 hours
* **Effect:** Belch out a stinking spray in a 10-foot cone, all creatures must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, they are coated in stench for 1d4 hours and all creatures within 5 feet of them must make a Constitution saving throw at the start of their turn or be poisoned until the start of their next turn.

#### Giant's Brew

This recipe was stolen from the giants, who closely guard their brewing secrets from everyone. Most self-respecting dwarves will claim the giants only produce foul brews, but they all secretly wish to learn the giant's process. When imbibed, you count as a huge creature when determining your carrying capacity and the weight you can push, drag, or lift, this effect lasts for the next hour.

* **Fermenting Time:** 3 days
* **Brew DC:** 13
* **Ingredient Cost:** 30 gp
  * **Alternative:** Auroch Blood + 15 gp
* **Effect Duration:** 1 hour
* **Effect:** You count as a huge creature for carrying capacity and weight that can be pushed, dragged or lifted.

#### Icecap Ale

This ale is crafted by adding sour fruits and then partially freezing it during the fermentation process and removing the ice. This freezing and removal of ice happens a dozen times to increase the potency of this brew. When ingested, this ale causes your muscles to tense up tight and you gain advantage on all Constitution and Strength saving throws for 10 minutes; you also gain a number of temporary hit points equal to half the Brewer's level (rounded up). After the 10 minutes are up, your body is exhausted and you gain one level of Exhaustion until you take a long rest or a spell like Greater Restoration is cast on you. Your temporary hit points do not end after the 10 minutes.

* **Fermenting Time:** 5 days
* **Brew DC:** 15
* **Ingredient Cost:** 30 gp
* **Effect Duration:** 10 minutes
* **Effect:** Advantage on all Constitution and Strength saving throws, and gain a number of temporary hit points equal to half the brewer's level.

#### Morning Stout

Some people start the morning out with a cup of coffee, but you don't see why you can't add that into your favorite evening drink. This dark, and almost decadent drink, makes your senses feel alive and you can swear your hands are barely even trembling. When ingested, this stout increases your movement by 5 feet and you have advantage on all Dexterity saving throws for 1 hour.

* **Fermenting Time:** 7 days
* **Brew DC:** 20
* **Ingredient Cost:** 50 gp
* **Effect Duration:** 1 hour
* **Effect:** Advantage on all Dexterity saving throws and your base movement speed is increased by 5 feet

#### Sugared Ale

Who says that sweet drinks are only for women? This extra sweetened ale will lighten your tongue and help you in the toughest of situations. When ingested, for the next hour you have advantage on all Charisma checks and you have advantage on saving throws against being Charmed.

* **Fermenting Time:** 5 days
* **Brew DC:** 15
* **Ingredient Cost:** 30 gp
* **Effect Duration:** 1 hour
* **Effect:** Advantage on all Charisma checks *and* saving throws against the Charmed condition.

## Calligrapher's Tools

TBD

## Carpenter's Tools

TBD

## Cook's Utensils

Cook's utensils are used to prepare food for royals, adventurers, and anyone else that enjoys food for more than just sustenance. These delicious dishes are the calling cards of chef's and, through the love of their Signature Dishes, are imbued with a hint of magic.

### What's in the Toolkit?

Cook's Utensils include a metal pot, knives, forks, a stirring spoon, and a ladle. Proficiency with this kit allows you to add your proficiency bonus to any checks you make for your Signature Dishes.

### Cooking Signature Dishes

Signature Dishes are recipes you are known for and are so good, that the magic from the world has infused them with special properties. To cook a Signature Dish, you must have proficiency in the use of the Cook's Utensils and you must know the recipe for the item you wish to cook. After choosing the Signature Dish to cook, you must gather the required ingredients and then you can cook the dish. You must roll a Wisdom (Cook's Utensils) check, though certain recipes may call for you to use your Intelligence instead.

If you do not have proficiency, you can still cook the items, but you do not gain any of the effects of a Signature Dish except for good quality food.

#### Signature Dish Recipes

If you know the recipe for a particular item, you know which ingredients are required to cook a Signature Dish, where those ingredients are likely to be found, and how to prepare them. You even know enough to substitute ingredients based on what’s available in your pantry.

Every Signature Dish recipe specifies the DCs required to craft Select, Choice, and Prime quality versions of that item. It also specifies any unique ingredients you must have access too, those ingredients must be acquired through special means, either through purchase or during the course of an adventure. When you roll a check to create food, you compare the result to each quality's DC and you create the highest quality of the item whose DC you met or exceeded.

#### Cooking your Dish

Signature Dishes come in three qualities, starting with the lowest and increasing in quality: Select, Choice, and Prime. Generally, the higher the quality, the more potent the item. A dish you have just cooked is known as Fresh and has all of its normal benefits.

##### Cold

As time passes, Signature Dishes, just like other food, begins degrading in quality. This effect is known as becoming Cold. When a Signature Dish becomes Cold, based on the type of dish being created, they offer a reduced benefit and are not as effective as when first cooked (if at all).

##### Compost 

The final stage of a Signature Dish is when it gains the Compost trait. This means it is only fit for composting and has no benefits, though you can still eat it in a pinch. A Compost dish has spent too much time since it was created and so has lost any benefits the dish once had.

#### Categories 

The three categories for Signature Dishes are:
* **Snacks** take 10 minutes to prepare and don't become Cold for several days.
* **Everyday** dishes can take a full hour to prepare and become Cold after a few hours.
* **Gourmet** can take several hours to prepare, and may even require constant monitoring while preparing it. These dishes become Cold quickly and should be consumed soon.

##### Fresh Ingredients

Signature Dishes are best prepared with ingredients of the finest quality that have the Fresh trait. The Fresh trait provides a small bonus to the dish, this typically makes the DC for creating the Signature Dishes lower, though it mayeven provide an extra lasting effect to the dish. When Fresh ingredients are unable to be used, the Signature Dishes have their default bonuses.

##### Enough for a Feast

When you make a Signature Dish, you create enough to feed up to 7 medium sized creatures and a creature can only gain the benefits of one of your Signature Dishes once per short rest. A creature loses any benefits from a previous Signature Dish, even if they have taken a short rest, if they consume another Signature Dish. Eating regular food does not lose any benefits early.

For each size category above medium, double the amount of food they need, for exmaple a Large creature takes the place of 2 creatures and a huge creature is 4 creatures. Small sized and smaller creatures take the place of 1 medium creature. If a creature doesn't eat enough of your Signature Dish, they gain no benefits. Eating more than is required provides no extra benefits.

### Learning New Recipes

If you are proficient with the Cook's Utensils, there are a number of ways you can learn new recipes. Chefs can easily teach each other recipes in just a few minutes and if you discover a chef's Recipe Book, you can also learn any recipes they have recorded. Not every recipe is a Signature Dish as Signature Dishes are special and often infused with magic upon their creation. Some say this is a blessing from the deity of food, but it could be the chef's own innate magical ability.

In addition, if you acquire a Signature Dish, you can use your Cook's Utensils to analyze the item. It takes one hour of quiet, careful work to analyze a Signature Dish and the item is destroyed in the process. At the end of the work period, make Wisdom (Cook's Utensils) check. If you meet or exceed the DC required to craft the item at Prime quality, you learn the recipe. Otherwise, you have learned nothing and destroyed the item.

|Recipe|Category|Cooking Time|Ingredient Cost|
|:-----|:------:|:----------:|:-------------:|
|Granola Bar|Snack|10 min.|8 gp|
|Trail Mix|Snack|10 min.|8 gp|
|Warm Almond Milk|Snack|5 min.|5 gp|
|Burger Bomb|Everyday|1 hr.|15 gp|
|Meatballs|Everyday|1 hr.|15 gp|
|Potato Hash|Everyday|1 hr.|5 gp|
|Whole Wheat Bread|Everyday|4 hours|10 gp|
|Carrot Cake|Gourmet|1 hour|15 gp|
|Five-Spice Chili|Gourmet|8 hours|20 gp|
|Three Layered Chocolate Cake|Gourmet|3 hours|20 gp|

### List of Recipes 

#### Burger Bomb
*Everyday dish*

Who would've thought putting a ground beef patty between two pieces of bread would be so delicious? After eating this sandwich, you are ready to take on the world. This burger provides you better chances at fighting your enemies. The next time you roll a certain number on an attack roll, and you would normally succeed against the target's AC, you automatically land a critical hit. If you don't gain this benefit before you finish a long rest, you lose this benefit. When the burger goes Cold, treat it as a burger of one lower quality, making Compost early if already at Select.

* **Cost:** 15 gp
* **Cook Time:** 1 hour
* **Cook DC:** 10 / 15 / 20
* **Cold**: 1 hour, treat it as lower quality
* **Compost**: 3 hours
* **Fresh Ingredients:** Freshly butchered beef, fresh bread
  * **Bonus:** -2 to Cook DC, costs an additional 5 gp
* **Effects:**
  * **Select:** The next time you roll a 19 or higher on an attack roll, and you would normally succeed against the target's AC, you land a critical hit.
  * **Choice:** The next time you roll a 18 or higher on an attack roll, and you would normally succeed against the target's AC, you land a critical hit.
  * **Prime:** The next time you roll a 17 or higher on an attack roll, and you would normally succeed against the target's AC, you land a critical hit.

#### Carrot Cake
*Everyday dish*

Nothing says decadent like a slice of a delicious carrot cake, and did you know that carrots are good for your eyes?When you eat this cake, you swear you can see better. This cake provides a bonus to your Wisdom (Perception) checks for the next 3 hours, with no effect on your passive Perception. When the cake goes Cold, this bonus is reduced by 2, making Compost early if already at Select.

* **Cost:** 15 gp
* **Cook Time:** 1 hour
* **Cook DC:** 10 / 15 / 20
* **Cold**: 3 hours, all bonuses are reduced by 2
* **Compost:** 9 hours
* **Fresh Ingredients:** Fresh cream cheese, crisp carrots
  * **Bonus:** -2 to Cook DC, costs an additional 5 gp
* **Effects:**
  * **Select:** +1 to Perception Checks.
  * **Choice:** +3 to Perception Checks.
  * **Prime:**  +5  to Perception Checks.

#### Five-Spice Chili
*Gourmet Dish*

This super spiced chili is composed of ground beef, sweettomatoes, and five signature spices that are sure to make agrown man cry. These spices bolster the natural constitutionand provides protection from the cold. This chili provides a reduction to cold damage per hit, lasting for 12 hours. When the chili goes Cold, the damage reduction lasts for only 3 hours.

* **Cost:** 20 gp
* **Cook Time:** 8 hours
* **Cook DC:** 15 / 18 / 22
* **Cold**: 20 minutes, damage reduction lasts for 3 hours.
* **Compost:** 1 hour.
* **Fresh Ingredients:** Freshly butchered meat, ripe tomatoes
  * **Bonus:** -2 to Cook DC, costs an additional 10 gp
* **Effects:**
  * **Select:** -3 reduction to incoming cold damage.
  * **Choice:** -5 reduction to incoming cold damage.
  * **Prime:**  -10 reduction to incoming cold damage.

#### Granola Bar
*Snack dish*

Sometimes all you need is a bar of fiber and honey. This delightful creation will boost your spirits and get you closer to supper without dying of hunger. This bar provides Temporary Hit Points. When the Granola Bar goes Cold, the number of Temporary Hit Points is reduced by 2. These Temporary Hit Points last until you finish a long rest.

* **Cost:** 10 gp
* **Cook Time:** 10 minutes
* **Cook DC:** 8 / 12 / 16
* **Cold**: 3 days, temporary hit points gained are reduced by 2
* **Compost:** 9 days
* **Effects:**
  * **Select:** 3 temporary hit points.
  * **Choice:** 5 temporary hit points.
  * **Prime:**  8 temporary hit points.

#### Meatballs
*Everyday dish*

This hearty meal of balled up meat gives a boost to your natural Constitution.This dish provides a +3 bonus to Constitution saving throws for a number of hours. When it goes Cold, the bonus decreases to +1.

* **Cost:** 15 gp
* **Cook Time:** 1 hour
* **Cook DC:** 10 / 15 / 20
* **Cold**: 8 hours, bonus decreased to +1.
* **Compost:** 24 hours
* **Effects:**
  * **Select:** +3 to Constitution Saves for 1 hour.
  * **Choice:** +3 to Constitution Saves for 2 hours.
  * **Prime:**  +3 to Constitution Saves for 5 hours.

#### Potato Hash
*Everyday dish*

PO-TAY-TOS. Boil em, mash em, stick em in a stew. Lovely big chunks of potatoes cooking in a fat slab of butter over a camp fire. Nothing will help give you a better pick-me-up than devouring some crispy taters. The hash provides additional hit die to use during their next short rest. These additional hit die are d8s and, if unused, are lost after finishing any rest. When the hash goes Cold, the number of hit die gained is reduced by 1, making Compost early if already Select.

* **Cost:** 10 gp
* **Cook Time:** 1 hour
* **Cook DC:** 10 / 15 / 20
* **Cold**: 10 minutes, the number of hit dice is reduced by 1.
* **Compost:** 30 minutes
* **Effects:**
  * **Select:** +1 additional d8 hit die.
  * **Choice:** +2 additional d8 hit dice.
  * **Prime:**  +3 additional d8 hit dice. 
 
#### Three Layered Chocolate Cake
*Gourmet Dish, **Requirement:** Intelligence*

Delicious and heavy, this cake is sure to turn anyone over to your side... so long as they still remember the heavenly texture and wonderful experience this cake provides.This dish provides a bonus to all Charisma checks the chef makes against someone who has eaten this cake. When the cake goes Cold, all bonuses are reduced by 2, making Compost early if already Select.

* **Cost:** 20 gp
* **Cook Time:** 3 hours
* **Cook DC:** 10 / 15 / 20
* **Cold**: 8 hours, all bonuses reduced by 2.
* **Compost:** 24 hours.
* **Effects:**
  * **Select:** +1 to all Charisma checks made by chef against creature that ate the cake.
  * **Choice:** +3 to all Charisma checks made by chef against creature that ate the cake.
  * **Prime:**  +5 to all Charisma checks made by chef against creature that ate the cake.

#### Trail Mix
*Snack dish*

This assortment of nuts and berries is the perfect mix to snack on, especially when you get to the only part that matters, sweet chocolates. While traveling, you can munch on a serving over the course of a day.This dish provides a bonus to Wisdom (Survival) checks to avoid becoming lost. When the trail mix goes Cold, all bonuses are reduced by 2, making (ṩ) Compost early.

* **Cost:** 10 gp
* **Cook Time:** 10 minutes
* **Cook DC:** 8 / 12 / 16
* **Cold**: 1 week, all bonuses reduced by 2
* **Compost:** 3 weeks
* **Effects:**
  * **Select:** +1 to Survival checks to avoid becoming lost.
  * **Choice:** +3 to Survival checks to avoid becoming lost.
  * **Prime:**  +5 to Survival checks to avoid becoming lost.
  
#### Warm Almond Milk
*Snack dish*

Warm almond milk sprinkled with nutmeg. When ingested,it prepares the body for a restful sleep. A willing target falls asleep within 10 minutes after drinking it and sleeps heavily for a short rest, waking up feeling refreshed. When the creature wakes up, the milk provides a bonus to their +3 Constitution saving throws for a duration. When this milk goes Cold, the bonus is reduced to +1. If the target wakes up before the end of the short rest, they do not gain any benefits from consuming this milk.

* **Cost:** 15 gp
* **Cook Time:** 5 minutes
* **Cook DC:** 10 / 15 / 20
* **Cold**: 5 minutes, bonus reduces to +1
* **Compost:** 15 minutes
* **Effects:**
  * **Select:** +3 to Constitution Saves for 1 hour.
  * **Choice:** +3 to Constitution Saves for 3 hours.
  * **Prime:**  +3 to Constitution Saves for 5 hours.

#### Whole Wheat Bread
*Everyday dish, **Requirement:** Intelligence*

Bread may be the greatest carb ever crafted. This complex recipe mixes different flours to produce a fine loaf of bread just begging for some honey smeared on top. This bread provides a +3 bonus to Strength saving throws for a duration. When this bread goes Cold, the bonus is reduced to +1.

* **Cost:** 10 gp
* **Cook Time:** 4 hours
* **Cook DC:** 10 / 15 / 20
* **Cold**: 1 day, bonus decreases to +1
* **Compost:** 3 days
* **Effects:**
  * **Select:** +3 to Strength Saves for 1 hour.
  * **Choice:** +3 to Strength Saves for 3 hours.
  * **Prime:**  +3 to Strength Saves for 5 hours.

## Glassblower's Tools

TBD

## Herbalism Kit

Exploring out into the forest, a ranger can quickly find special ingredients to create poultices, salves and cures. These powerful concoctions are created through the natural ingredients of their environment, though their potency is quick to fade once acquired.

### What's in the Toolkit?

The following text replaces the text found on pg. 82 of ***Xanathar's Guide to Everything:***

An herbalism kit includes pouches to store herbs, clippers and leather gloves for collecting plants, a mortar and pestle, and several glass jars and vials.Proficiency with this kit allows you to add your proficiency bonus to any Herbalism Kit checks, and allows you to create any recipes you know.

### Foraging and Crafting 

In order to create your recipes, you must spend time to forage for the proper ingredients. Before heading off looking for ingredients, you must first choose which recipe you wish to create, and then over the course of an hour, you can forage through whatever terrain you are in, in the search of rare flowers, moss or whatever else the recipe calls for.

At the end of an hour, you then must roll a Herbalism Kit check using your Wisdom modifier, plus your Proficiency bonus, to craft the item. This check determines if you were able to locate any of the herbs you were looking for and the potency of the herbs. There are three potencies when creating your recipes: Minor, Moderate, and Masterwork.

Once you create a Recipe, it will lose its potency after 24 hours and reduces in potency. *I.e. If you craft a Masterwork item, in 24 hours, and it has not been used, it will reduce in potency to Moderate. A Minor item that reduces in potency after 24 hours is no longer potent enough to work.*

### Recipes

By knowing recipes, you know which ingredients are required to craft an Herbal Recipe, where you can find the ingredients and how to substitute items based on what is in the area.

Each recipe features the environment where you can find the correct ingredients, and per the DMs discretion you may be able to find the required ingredients in a different one. This may add disadvantage on your Herbalism Kit check.

Each recipe also features different DCs required to craft Minor, Moderate and Masterwork potent items. Certain recipes may call for highly specialized ingredients that you can not find in the usual manner, this may be something you must go on a quest for or spend weeks, even years, tracking down the ingredients.

#### Recipes Known

Characters with proficiency in the Herbalism Kit know 3 recipes and may be able to learn new recipes if they can find other herbalist, find herbalist notes or by experimenting with different plants in their environment.

### Traveling

While traveling, you can forgo foraging for food and instead forage for ingredients for specific recipes. While doing so, you cannot perform any other task and must pay attention to how far away you travel from your group.

If you are traveling at a **Normal Pace**, you can gather enough ingredients for one recipe every 3 hours; at a **Slow Pace**, you can gather enough ingredients for one recipe every 2 hours. At a **Fast Pace**, you can not gather any ingredients.

So long as a Ranger is in their Favored Terrain, they can make the required Herbalism Kit checks with advantage.

### Analyzing Items

If you find a Herbal Recipe, you can use your Herbalism Kit to analyze the item. It takes one hour of work to analyze the item and the item is destroyed in the process. At the end of the hour, roll a Herbalism Kit Check. If you meet or exceed the DC required to craft the item at Masterwork potency, you learn the recipe. Otherwise the item is destroyed and you learn nothing.

### Purchasing Items 

You are able to purchase Herbal Recipes and their items from Herbalists. The cost listed with each Herbal Recipe is the cost to buy an item from a Herbalist. This cost may be more than what is listed depending on a variety of factors, dependent on the GM's discretion. All purchased Herbal Items still expire within 24 hours of purchasing them.

### List of Recipes

#### Burnsoothe Ointment

This paste, composed primarily of roots and plant oils, reduces pain and speeds the recovery of burns. If applied to a creature’s wounds within 10 minutes of their taking fire damage from any source or if applied within 10 minutes at the end of an encounter during which they took fire damage from any source, the creature heals hit points depending on the potency.

* **Cost:** 20 / 40 / 60 gp
* **Environment:** Forest, Swamp
* **Potency DC:** 10 / 15 / 20
* **Effects:**
  * **Minor:** Creature heals 1d6 hit points when applied.
  * **Moderate:** Creature heals 1d6 + 2 hit points when applied.
  * **Masterwork:** Creature heals 1d8 + 2 hit points when applied.

#### Contact Poison

General poison that you can either coat your blade with or smear it on an object. When you coat it on an object, or a blade, it lasts for 1 hour, at which point its exposure to oxygen renders it useless. Whenever a creature touches the coated object, or on each successful attack roll against them once per turn, they take poison damage dependent on potency.

* **Cost:** 20 / 40 / 60 gp
* **Environment:** Forest, Swamp
* **Potency DC:** 15 / 20 / 25
* **Effects:**
  * **Minor:** 1d4 poison damage when touched or hit.
  * **Moderate:** 1d6 poison damage when touched or hit.
  * **Masterwork:** 2d4 poison damage when touched or hit.

#### Drunk Legs

These pine needles are blended with a mixture of algae and muck to create a tonic that will leave muscles twitching. Mixing this with a drink will create a vile tasting concoction that when ingested will cause muscles to weaken and to not respond to commands from the body. When ingested, the target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or have disadvantage on Dexterity saving throws and ability checks for the next hour. To force feed someone this mixture, you must complete two grapple checks to complete the maneuver, the first one grabs them, the second forces the concoction in them, so long as they have a mouth. 

Save DC is dependent on potency. They can repeat the saving throw once every 10 minutes to end the effect early.

* **Cost:** 10 / 20 / 30 gp
* **Environment:** High-Altitude Forests, Caves
* **Potency DC:** 12 / 18 / 23
* **Effects:**
  * **Minor:** DC 10 for effect.
  * **Moderate:** DC 13 for effect.
  * **Masterwork:** DC 15 for effect.

#### Gashglue

This thick gray glue takes a full minute to apply to the bare skin. The glue temporarily holds damaged tissue together for up to 4 hours, at which point it dries up and flakes off. If applied within 10 minutes of receiving any bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage, a certain number points of that damage is restored in the form of temporary hit points. If the temporary HP exceeds the damage taken, you regain only up to the damage take, not beyond.

*For example, if you took 5 points of damage, and you rolled 6 temporary hit points, you only get 5 temporary hit points.*

* **Cost:** 10 / 20 / 30 gp
* **Environment:** Forest, Swamp
* **Potency DC:** 10 / 15 / 20
* **Effects:**
  * **Minor:** 1d4 + Wisdom Modifier potential temporary hit points.
  * **Moderate:** 2d4 + Wisdom Modifier potential temporary hit points.
  * **Masterwork:** 3d4 + Wisdom Modifier potential temporary hit points.

#### Ingested Poison

#### Night Eyes

#### Paralyzing Paste

#### Quickened Thought

#### Relaxing Bark

#### Sickening Rot

#### Sleeping Leaf Tea

#### Venomcleanse Tea

#### Weakening Muscle

#### Woundbind Poultice

## Jeweler's Tools

TBD

## Mason's Tools

TBD

## Painter's Supplies

TBD

## Poisoner's Kit

TBD

## Potter's Tools

TBD

## Smith's Tools

TBD

## Tinker's Tools

TBD

## Weaver's Tools

TBD

## Woodcarver's Tools

Pulled from ['Making Tools Useful in 5e' by DumpStatAdventures](https://static1.squarespace.com/static/5bd88db093a6320f071b1a50/t/5e415c945af4111d704399a8/1581341852091/WoodcarversTools.pdf)

Shaping and forming wood, you can carve wood and morph it into shapes useful for not only combat but art as well.

### What's in the Toolkit?

Woodcarver's tools consist of a carving knife, a gouge, a small mallet, and a small saw. Your tools weigh 5 lbs and cost 2gp.

#### Woodcarving 

Carving wood into beautiful art or deadly weapons requires that you have materials present, because your expertise and tools are designed for wood, you must have wood handy.There are some types of wood, like hardwoods or magically enhanced wood, that might be more difficult to craft or have special properties you can impart into your projects.

When carving, you must succeed on a Dexterity (Woodcarver's Tools) check, and you can add your proficiency bonus if you are proficient with said tools. 

### Creating your Project 

Woodcarving can be a very short process if you are crafting a simple statue that fits in your palm or it can be a week long endeavor to create beautiful designs on a man-sized totem. To carve wood, you must spend at least 10 minutes, or more depending on the project. A small wooden figure of a horse may only take a skilled carver 10 minutes, while a throne fit for a king may require several weeks or months. Most simple projects require up to an hour to complete. The more elaborate the design, or the size required, the longer the piece takes to complete per the DM's discretion. Examples are given below. Carving wood can be defined into 2 broad categories: **detail** and **scope**.

#### Detail 

The detail of your carvings affects the length of time to complete your project. There are three categories for your projects: **Vague, Light,** or **Heavy** detail. All times represent the minimum for each project, and at the DM's discretion they might take longer. 

**Vaguely** detailed projects require at least 5 minutes to work an appropriately sized piece of wood plus the time it requires for the scope of the project. A vaguely detailed project might be a set of arrow shafts, a door wedge, or other basic shapes. *Vaguely detailed projects add a +1 to Carving DC*.

**Lightly** detailed projects require at least 1 hour plus the time it requires for the scope of the project. Lightly detailed projects generally consist of multiple basic shapes combined to create figurines, or slightly complicated designs. For example, you could create a figurine of a horse but not include any details like fur or hooves. *Lightly detailed projects add a +3 to Carving DC*.

**Heavily** detailed projects require at least 8 hours to carve plus the time it requires for the scope of the project. Heavily detailed projects consist of carved patterns or intricate shapes, such as feathers on a bird or adding the wrinkles on a wooden face. *Heavily detailed projects add a +6 to Carving DC*.

#### Scope 

The scope of the project affects the length in time to carve out the shape in wood. The scope represents the size of your creations and there are three categories: **Minute, Substantial,** or **Immense**. All times represent the minimum time to create projects of a certain scope, and at the DM's discretion may take longer. 

**Minute** projects require at least 5 minutes to carve plus the amount of time it requires for the detail of the project. A project of this scope is something small enough to fit or be handled easily with a single hand. This includes things like figurines, arrow shafts, or objects that weigh below 2 lbs. Minute 

**Substantial** projects require at least 1 hour plus the amount of time it requires for the detail of the project. A substantial project is something relatively large-sized that can easily be handled with two hands. Examples might include a shield, quarterstaff, or objects that weigh below 30 lbs. 

**Immense** projects require at least 8 hours to create plus the amount of time required for the detail of the project. An immense project could be a throne, a pulpit, a wooden wall or anything that requires a lot of effort or multiple people to move about. 

#### Creating the Project 

After the project is completed, or 8 hours of work has been completed, the crafter must succeed on a Dexterity (Woodcarver's Tools) check. On a success, they make progress on their creation or finish it depending on detail and scope. On a fail of 10 or less, they make no progress. On a fail of 11 or more, they have broken or damaged the project in such a way as to decrease its value. Restarting the project may be necessary at that point. 

The DC for carving a project is heavily dependent on the **detail** and **scope**. The DC for Carving is:
<p align = "center">
  <b>Carving DC:</b> <i>8 + Detail Bonus + Scope Bonus</i>
</p>
The DM may decide that certain details or sizes may raise or lower the DC, or adjust how often or little you need to roll to make progress. If you are creating a heavily detailed and immense throne, making a check every 8 hours may be too much left to chance. Ultimately, the number of checks required is simply a recommendation. Some example projects are included below:

|Project|Detail|Scope|Time|Carving DC|# of Checks|
|:------|:-----|:----|:--:|:--------:|:---------:|
|Arrow  |Vague |Minute|10 min.|10|1|
|Small Carving Board|Vague|Minute|10 min.|10|1|
|Figurine of a Horse|Light|Minute|1 hour|12|1|
|Quarterstaff|Light|Substantial|1 hr.|15|1|
|Shield|Light|Substantial|2 hrs.|15|1|
|Intricate Whistle|Heavy|Minute|8 hrs.|15|1|
|Throne for a Sprite|Heavy|Minute|8 hrs.|15|1|
|Owl Statue|Heavy|Substantial|9 hrs.|17|2|
|Temple Pulpit|Heavy|Immense|16+ hrs.|20|2+|

#### Limited Tools 

To make the tools easy to carry around on your travels, you have very few tools and may not be able to work on orojects of Immense scope. If you have access to a workshop with a full set of carving tools, the DM may decide to give you advantage on Dexterity (Woodcarver's Tools) checks or reduce the amount of time it takes to complete a project. 

### Searching for Materials 

Before you can begin a project, you must first acquire your materials. To create your project, you must find a suitable chunk of wood that is approximately the same size as the project you wish to create. You can always take wood away, but it is much harder to add additional wood to make a project larger.

Unless you have some other means of gathering your material, you must journey through forests searching for the right chunks to use for the project. A Nature check can be made to find materials, and the Material Search DC is dependent on the type of forests around you and the size of the project. A few examples are provided below:

|DC | Scope of Project | Density / Type of Forest |
|:-:|:-----------------------|:-----------------|
|5 |Minute     | Extremely dense, lots of trees         |
|8 |Minute     |Thinning Forest, mostly new growth      |
|10|Minute     |Forest dying to disease, mostly saplings|
|10|Substantial|Extremely dense, lots of trees          | 
|13|Substantial|Thinning forest, mostly new growth      |
|15|Substantial|Forest dying to disease, mostly saplings|
|15|Immense    |Extremely dense, lots of trees          |
|18|Immense    |Thinning forest, mostly new growth      |
|20|Immense    |Forest dying of disease, mostly saplings|

The quality of the forst and the scope of the project can make it very difficult to find the right size of wood needed for your creation. There is the potential you could **buy** the required chunk of wood in town with the following example prices provided.

|Type of Wood|Weight|Cost|
|:-----------|:----:|:--:|
|Softwood      |1 lb  |2 cp |
|Hardwood      |1 lb  |1 gp |
|Petrified Wood|1 lb  |3 gp |
|Dragon Burned |1 lb  |5 pp |

#### Softwood

Softwood is the typical wood used by most woodcarvers for their projects. It is cheap and easy to come by. It has an AC of 10 and 5 hit points per inch of thickness. Softwood breeds include Birch, Fir, Teak, and Walnut.

#### Hardwood

Hardwood is a common type of wood that is harder than regular wood, making it ideal for long lasting design and weaponry. If a weapon is made out of hardwood, it deals +1 additional damage on a hit. It has an AC of 12 and 10 hit points per inch of thickness. Hardwood breeds include Mahogany, Oak, and Pine. 

#### Petrified Wood

This wood has been petrified, either by a basilisk, or through a long process of fossilization. Due to how hard it is, it provides ample durability and additional force when used in weaponry. When you score a critical hit with a weapon made of this material, it deals one additional die of damage (applied AFTER the damage is doubled). It has an AC of 15 and 3 hit points per inch of thickness. Any breed of wood can become petrified.

#### Dragon Burned

When a forest is scoured by draconic breath, some trees are so enveloped in the blasts that aspects of the dragon's magic infuses the wood with that particular element. When used in weaponry, this magical wood allows the weapon to deal elemental damage instead of its normal damage type. It has an AC and hit points of its original breed, however it gains no other benefits. 


