
# Session M0013C - TBD

## Pre-Session Checklist

- [X] Remind everyone that they might have new or updated character sheets
- [X] Let everyone know they can spend DT at the start of the next session

## Session Roadmap

- The session starts on the airship on the way back to Fairhaven

### Gallywix's Moment 

- Gallywix on the airship will have an encounter with the Traveler
- Scenes will shift at various points as the Traveler talks with Gallywix 
  - The very same grove in the Shabh Quarter, except as he heads there all the people moving around him are going very slow, and look less like people and more like shades or leftover essences of them?
  - The Traveler will comment on the Pontifex Collective and that it'll be REALLY CHAOTIC once things start getting set into motion. Are you sure you adventurers want to stir a hornets nest like that?
    - So what is Starkcrag Rock? Depends on who you ask. Aundair will say it's theirs, Eldeen will say it deserves to stay pristine and will encourage taking it as well, don't even get me started with Thrane or the Lhazaar Principalities trying to stake claims in the Demon Wastes as well. At least 4 countries, that of which are at odds with eachother already. This 'Hiruu' will certainly want to stay independent too. Imagine a sudden influx of thousands of people reawakened to be told they no longer deserve homes in their ancestral lands. How much deliberation is going to happen before it comes to blows? Now, add Darguun and Droaam which will no doubt try to appeal and support the Pontifex rather than the Five Kingdoms. The world has had two restful years after the treaty of Thronehold, and these Pontifex will no doubt upheave that peace, rightfully fighting for their place back in the world they thought would fall to the Daelkyr. I recommend you sit down and really think before you jump down the rabbit hole of rabbit holes. 

# Loot Taken

## Ana

- 5 Death Kiss Tentacles
- 13 Dolguant Tentacles

## Diva / Renn 

- 14 Dolgaunt Teeth

## Gallywix

- 

## Nevitana

- 7 Death Kiss Blood Vials
- 1 Death Kiss Eye (ATTUNEMENT)

## Seym

- 80 Dolguant Teeth


## Ideas


